This is where the clever soundbite goes at the beginning
Welcome to a B testing podcast your modern testing podcast
Your hosts Alan and Brent will be here to guide you through topics on testing
Leadership agile and anything else that comes to mind now on with the show
Hello all three of you. This is Alan. This is Brent and we're back again. It's a B testing
Not AI testing. It's a B testing. But here we are. How's it going, Brent?
Going going it's going it's going
Week here already today
I'm
deeply considering the new hobby of alcoholism immediately following this meeting or this
recording
I'm going out tonight, but yeah, we'll figure that part out later. I am
Yeah, where you going? Um
Century ballroom in Seattle has been around for a year 28 years and they are closing down
They decided not to renew their lease and I think the people that run it are gonna retire ready to go to their big party
down the block here
Fine. So that's my plans for tonight. So you're gonna go drinking and dancing pretty much pretty much
Except I don't know any of the dances that are before like they're doing like an all-night thing
It's well, it'll be fun. It's mostly a people watching thing looking forward to it and then
Going out tomorrow night and then Sunday heading off to New York for work for a week
Okay, that's it man exciting. Oh
The big peach no Apple no come quiet. I know what it is
All right
All right. Well, we are here again. This is just for those of you new to the podcast
I know you know what I've been watching listeners. We're saturated
We don't get any new ones ever. It's the same three people every week listening to the
Just a race to see who every week ha every two or three weeks as we find time
It's a race to see who's gonna listen to it first
Who's gonna be the one wait, you know the who's you have that down? No, of course. I don't I don't know anything
Okay, that would be PII. I don't know
It's there's people and they listen to the podcast and hello people. Hi Tim
There's probably a few others we know by name. What if Jim Jim Oh still listens. Oh
Hey Jim, how's it going? I don't know where these people work I
Yeah, so many layoffs
weird time to be in the industry
Do you want to get into it or do you what do you want to do? You want to talk about?
Anything actually, what are you watching? What are you a binging recently? I've gone old-school
I've decided to go back to
1997 and
I am binge watching
Babylon 5. Oh, I remember that show. I remember that show. I've been watching. I don't if you get max
Yes, you do read it anymore. I did. I've been watching the pit on there with
Noah Wiley, it's it's
It's really it's it's good. I like it
It reminded me go back and watch the first episode of ER. What is like a little teeny, baby? That was kind of funny
So yeah that I looked at the Oscar nominations
I have seen a nun of except for Dune 2 I've seen none of the movies
So I am really out of touch in that department and I watched the Grammys a few weeks ago
And do not think Beyonce had the best country album last year, but whatever it's a political thing and it's not a bad album
And there's no way the AI Beatles should have won best rock song. There's my takeaway on the Grammys. I
Did not watch the Grammys
It hasn't been something that
Anyone in my house has cared about for ever
Yeah, I'm consistent on
not caring
What people not close to me?
Are doing
All right. Yeah, do you want to get into the thing we're gonna talk about? Yeah, I was just
The meantime I was looking at Jimbo and looks like he went to Moby games
I don't know. I was thinking Jim Jim. Oh not Jimbo. Oh
Because he used to listen to the podcast I don't know if Jimbo ever did
Nobody knows what we're talking about
We had Patrick on one of the three dot slack calm
Jimbo though
like to me
He he was doing data science and test before anyone knew that he was doing that
He was fantastic. Yeah, I liked him a lot. I liked them both a lot
I felt bad cuz I made Jim Mo come work for me and then I quit
So that didn't go so well
On one of the three dot slack calm our slack group
You can get an invitation link by going to modern testing org and reading a little bit and finding the link
You don't need to sign anything. You don't need to pay anything. You can show up and you can do whatever you want there
We do have a code of conduct should be nice and treat each other nicely
But you can ask questions and sometimes we'll make fun of I mean answer those questions on the podcast
Patrick said I don't remember hearing a mailbag. Oh a mailbag about this topic specifically
But maybe it can serve as a palate cleanser between discussions about AI and I and we definitely need a palate cleanser
But you know we need more than that
Yes
We need the mailbag sound effect because it's we haven't played that in a long time
I haven't played that in a long time if you want to hear more of that just ask us some frickin questions. God, right?
otherwise, we just
Make shit up. All right. I'm gonna read this. There's a lot here. We're gonna come back to this
I'm gonna go through the whole question and we're gonna talk about all of it this year
I became the tech lead for my team some context
I am transitioning from a quality engineering role to a development role in my organization
The tech leads role is to help team members overcome challenges provide feedback to act as a contact for the manager and keep everyone motivated
So I guess standard stuff
My team consists only of senior developers who perform at a high level and previous tech leads that set a high standard
My current focus is on improving our processes and the way we work
Which I feel confident about and my strategy is to ask the right questions and help to help remove bottlenecks in their daily tasks
Either by asking questions or escalating issues when needed
What I'm unsure about is how to stay on top of unknowns and such senior team
Since their technical knowledge is greater than mine and I'm not sure I'm missing any signals from them
I want to introduce one-on-ones to fixes
But maybe there's still something else if you have any recommendations or materials could help in situation. I would really appreciate it
So my answer the last one just listen to a bunch of the podcast back before we start talking about AI
But uh, let's get your reactions and then we can dive in here. Oh
I'm ready to dive in. Oh, but let me react them. Okay, so I
Love it. I think this is a modern way to work. I
Well, no, I'm gonna finish here
Not not the first time facing this problem
I've been in very similar and I'm gonna problem been in very similar roles myself or put people on my team into these roles
I love I kind of love the context
I love where he's starting from so many people start this question and say I don't know what to do
I'm not empowered. I can't do anything. I love that
Patrick is starting from a really good place. Sounds like he knows what to do
Just looking for some tips
He wants to recognize where the unknown unknowns are and there are there are ways to do that
We'll talk about those and one-on-ones is one of those things. So all in all down the right track
So that's just me just nodding my head going. Okay, this is gonna be fun. But let's dive in right? Okay
My first response
And I don't know to what degree we'll repeat it here today
But we've talked about this before
drink drink
So first thing I'll say is go back and visit
episode
Homework before that wait, did you do homework before the podcast? No Spotify has a really good search engine
Because I was confident we had done that one before and we had and it's cleverly titled
Retrospectives because that is what I think
So yeah do one-on-ones
but
bring in
my first two questions is
Do you guys have a board? Do you guys have something in which you are making the invisible visible?
Do you have because you talk about bottlenecks and when I when I see that I'm like there is nothing
That I have seen
ever in software development that works better at identifying
bottlenecks
than a combo board like
Yes 80%
It isn't just having the combine board. Let me finish. Let me finish. Let me finish
It's asking questions like what work is remaining to move this item to the right?
That's where you discover the bottlenecks and the things like the unknown thing because having the board
Now the things are there the things that blocking them aren't there by default
the reason why I say the con button board and not a scrum board or
Whatever the the cool kids are using nowadays, you know
Scrum ban or whatever
In particular the concept of whip right whip
If you have a team that's enforcing whip
Then the combine board will show you where your bottleneck is and then you add that
When when tickets are getting done if you add it your religious discussion
I've always recommended a weekly meeting
where you go through and you
you talk about
you retrospect on
On the tickets that you got done
I I generally like to look at the ones that took the most amount of time
I
Have my team draw what's called a value stream map
Where you look at the timeline for that ticket and and you just very simply draw a line across the whiteboard
But you shift the line up every time there's active work being done
And then you bring the line back down every time the ticket is idle and then you can just see the periods of activity
and
Idleness, and then you can start asking targeted questions around Oh
Like okay. So why was that ticket idle for you know, ten days or oh
Really? What were you doing during this time that like you were active on on this ticket for ten days during this time?
What were you?
What were you doing during that time and it ends up?
Being a great tool to have a discussion around
What are the things that are slowing us? I am a fan of value stream map, so I'm not gonna poop with that at all
But you can have those Patrick can have those conversations before someone's had the ticket for ten days
If something's in a column for ten days, it's gonna get asked about
Right, right. No, no, no because it's block. It's it's blocking a whip. It's blocking other work from making it into that column
I'm calm. I'm combining all of the things that I know that are fantastic for this one
Like if you if you have a cam band board with whip, right now the idea with whip is
You limit the number of tickets that are allowed in that column, okay
And it ends up being really frustrating particularly if you do a good job on honoring whip
like the person
Who's trying to move a ticket into that column can't because that columns exceeding whip
Get where you're coming from because I know I know what you're talking about
Let me rephrase this for those who may be lost at this point. All right what you're get I'm not picking on you
I'm just phrasing it differently because you haven't said this directly because you know it too well
I'm going I'm actually being supportive. So shut up. I'm crying Jesus
Christ
What you what you're doing
When you use again people use combine they use it wrong
But if you use whip we're in progress for those who are following along
You're going to and you put those at reasonable numbers. It's going to highlight where the bottlenecks are
it's gonna highlight the unknown unknowns that someone like Patrick is looking for because stuff is gonna get blocked and you can figure out why one
moving from column to column it to why is stuff stuck in this column forever and
There's a fun
Kanban game. I played a long time ago or it really helps you figure out like
Like the first time you play it's all completely broken you screw everything up and you learn stuff
You figure how to make stuff flow through the board, which is how Kanban works when you use it correctly
You have been in a little bubble of your teens using Kanban very well for a very long time
Out in the real world probably elsewhere at Microsoft. There are teens with a Kanban board
Maybe with whip but the whip numbers are like 12 for every column and shit just sits there all over the place
It's a big freakin mess. So done, right? I
My teams use scrum now
Again for those of you I put it's not a lot scrum was around before the agile manifesto
It was just convenient for teams to do a little mini waterfall every two weeks. It's fine
There's a lot of good things come from it. I I'm a big believer in
Kanban especially for
Work that's primarily it's a lot reaction driven. But anyway, I prefer Kanban blah blah blah
But you got to do it right you can't half-ass it
It's gonna highlight it's gonna help you figure out where the bottlenecks are where the unknown unknowns are and then do the retros
not just on
Not just on what
Didn't go. Well, what what sorry do the retros not just on
Why was this item stuck but what was hard what was frustrating, you know get get the questions do the continuous improvement as we both said many times
Maybe I maybe only I've said this I think you said it too other than your one-on-one with your manager
The team retro is the most important meaning you could have yes
Full agreement cool. I actually think it's
Particularly for my staff. It's even more important than their one-on-one with their manager
I
Know not not all leaders are created equal Jensen
the
in again episode 119
I'm like there's two types of retros. I could bring back up
There's the weekly and then the quarterly one that I propose I'm pretty certain we talked about it there
The the other important question that I find
Particularly in retro. So number one
Alan was right when the board is act or when when you have an active ticket on the board
It's more important to ask what help do you need to move this ticket to the next column?
Okay, that's that's probably the single most important question the single stupidest question is what is the status of this ticket?
the
and then in retrospective what I have found is
The single most important question in retrospective is
What did the team fail to do to help you get this ticket done sooner?
hmm, so my take on retrospective is
is
That whoever owned the ticket by deaf and inside of retrospective by definition. They were are perfect
They did everything right. They did the best they could it was the team
That let them down and by taking that angle
The team starts getting involved in yeah
Well, the reason the way I let you down is that I I saw that this ticket is there and I didn't ask you for help
I picked up some new work
Right it it gets the team
Self introspecting around hey, they are not working as a team
They're letting this this one to get this one person flounder, right?
Um
Patrick Patrick Patrick is going through and he's taking on a one-man mission to remove the bottlenecks
But the best way you can really get those bottlenecks going is creating an environment where that's a team responsibility
not just
the technique like
Alan actually there's there's no one better
that I have met than Alan on
identifying problems and getting the community to work through a
solution in a safe place
Sharing some of the tricks that I have used I don't have that one's awesome skill set in that
Magic now
Alan I'll turn it back to you and say hey
What what are things that you is suggest here number one and number two in particular?
Because everything we've just spent the last 20 minutes talking about
relies on
Some form of an agile process including the retro stuff. Yeah. Yeah, and that's that's gonna set up a lot of this stuff
What would you do if you didn't have that?
And and I'm not good and of course the obvious answer. Well, I would start it is
Yes
I
Have done I have look people I'm up. I'm a music major. I
Learned how to code I've written a lot of good code, but I've always worked with people who are better developers to me
but
It's this art of discernment this art of critical thinking and asking questions
You don't need to know more in order to do it
You just need to ask like if you did these senior developers if you could ask them questions to get them to reflect
You're gonna get all of the knowledge you need in order to help them be successful
so you're sure they have senior developers and and
Doesn't the Sun need they they know what they're doing?
One-on-ones help ask them questions like do you do little mini retros? What's the hardest part about your job and
See if there are patterns there ask them questions like when they're implementing something ask
You know pull out the Weinberg card. What other solutions should we have considered here?
Like red flags for me is when the developer says this is the first solution. I thought of it's correct
How do you know it's the right one? Just
You know Weinberg says until you come up with at least three solutions for your problem
You'll understand your problem well enough you can get people focused on well
Are we solving the problem in the best way for the customer?
Those you don't need technical knowledge to answer those questions. What you need is to help
Give people like a system thinking approach to what they're going to deliver. It's so much coaching you can do
Regardless of agile waterfall V model, whatever you want to do refrigerator model, which is my favorite. I don't know how it works
shut the door and turn the light turns off but
Just ask questions to get people to think a little bit get them to
You and I have known a lot of really good developers and not all most of these developers
They are anxious to get their solution coded and done
We can do a lot of value in I call it a coach role. It could be a tech lead role. It could be
just another developer role of
Asking people to just reflect a little bit more get them to slow down a little bit and think about what they're doing
There's a whole bag full of tricks of questions you can ask. So that's where I would start
then then
also
Being a good developer doesn't necessarily or being a senior developer doesn't necessarily mean you deliver quality software
Doesn't mean you're focused on there's so much to a quality culture
So what do you do?
You pull out the quality culture transition guide and you look at you can get from there's there's a link in the slack
You could just search for quality culture transition guide. It's somewhere out there
or yeah, you'll find it and
Look at a bunch of different attributes that we expect teams to work on together including the approach to quality bug backlogs
Design approaches coverage approaches test approaches figure out what's missing
You can one thing
Developers may do it sounds like moving from QA into develop. Maybe the team doesn't have testers anymore
There is an opportunity to
Educate folks on different test ideas and techniques depending on what they're making something that may not be
Completely like there was well does write unit tests, but I need a tester to write the real test
No, you don't help them write the better tests help them and contextual
15 years ago or so when model-based testing was super exciting and everybody is
People it didn't work for a lot of teams because they tried to apply it to places where model-based testing would work
introducing developers to different whether it's contract testing or model-based testing or
Even automation and post ban for API testing if they don't know it is it is a great way to help them understand their unknown unknowns
And you I think your unknowns on our knowns. In fact, I got a specter Patrick question is how do I stay on top of the unknowns?
The things that you don't know are what they don't know
So you need to figure out what their unknown unknowns are so they can be something that you know
They don't know so you can help them help them make that something they know
If you if you don't read Philip armor, you cannot follow that. So please go read Philip armors five orders of ignorance and come back
but there are
It's really to me summary in my three-minute soapbox here is
You can I can work with the most senior developers in the world
I just have to ask them questions and get them to reflect and think about what they're doing
I'm not gonna take it. It'll just a little sprinkle here and there but that's that's what that's what good coaching is
agreed
I'll respond now and summarize a couple of thoughts that I had based of what Alan just said, but first I'll say
the quality culture transition guide
can be found at
GitHub.com slash modern testing one word slash resources. Whoo. Yeah, I went mutant figure that out
As well as all kinds of random related things
Although I do like
The mural board that was produced by the listener years ago
So
First and foremost if you if you don't want to do any of the other structural components
Okay, and and like all of these things you can take them and all a cart menu
You could do all of them. You could do one of them
Right. I suppose you could do none of them
But you did ask us the question. So I don't propose that as an option
I
First and foremost if the developers are more senior than you, okay, then I find then
Assuming that they actually
Already know the answer to their question. They already know how to do this
they just focused on something else or
It's not top of mind or they can't think of how to do it cheaply, right?
So create an environment where you encourage change agents to try to be
change agents
Is a good thing
The coaching habit that I was gonna recommend that is
Is in terms of everything that alan just talked about if you want a structure or you want a great approach
Again, nothing better than that. I have encountered than the content within that book. Okay the hardest
thing
in in the role that Patrick describes
Sounds like won't be so hard for him
Because the hardest thing for for most people I know of
to execute
The practices in the coaching habit habit is to not jump in and problem solve
Mm-hmm, right? Yeah, cause
And if you don't know how to problem solve then you're perfectly suited for the techniques in this book
It's about asking the right questions
Right and pausing
Um, i'm a big fan of the Socratic method
right the the anytime i'm talking with with my employees or
Mentees or even people that come to me for problems
right
I like to play a little game
In in the game is can I ask the right questions that aren't leading questions
And get them themselves to say a solution at least what?
right
um
because
Getting them asking the right questions and getting them to say the solution
Helps not only the thought process, but the solution to stick
Versus like if I have to direct a solution
Right how how i'm going to be interpreted is going to be is
going to depend on
Um, so I I speak i'm a top-down communicator I speak in strategic terms abstract terms
And so if you're a detailed or a new person
You might take a literal view on what i'm saying if you are an abstract person
You might take an abstract but a different interpretation of what i'm saying
right, um
Going into the Socratic method and the coaching habit are just fantastic techniques. Yeah, and
And it's it's fun and getting out of anyway lots of coaching there. In fact, you it's interesting
I was trying to remember the name of the author. Uh bungie bungie b-u-n-g-a-y
I started with the name of the book. I do remember the author. But you know while I was talking this is all I was
I was glad it was
Started over again. I'm not going to edit this because I I gave up on editing a while back but
Uh, that's what I was thinking about when I was giving the questions. It's um
it's uh
Coaching habit great great ideas there and I remember I have one more thing to bring up. Yeah. Yeah, go ahead. Okay, whatever
So so far we have talked about
I would say two big things
Um number one coaching habit Socratic method
um
Great influencer when you're one-on-one
okay, um
Something like a Kanban board or a scrum board great structural
Influencer to help to help identify these um
these bottlenecks
What about social?
How do you as a tech lead
get
your team
To talk amongst each other
To solve this problem. Oh
I think now I would argue at your retrospective is absolutely a way to do that
What are others?
Well
I would say that could be a way
I'll phrase it differently and then i'll answer it
It's another way to find out what those unknown unknowns are is begin to build some community around the dev team
Is get them get I mean whether it's
facilitating or organizing some you know architecture sharing a group code review a
presentation on an approach
A presentation on a particular tool whether it's a test tool debugging tool somebody's used
Get them to again. These are creates going back to philip armor
Create suitable means for your dev team to just get rest your dev team to discover what they don't know. They don't know
So you can have a bunch of developers who are very good in siloed bits. They know their little bit
They don't know how this stuff works
Uh, you can create
A learning organization as peters and gay would say in the fifth one by giving them opportunities to see each other are doing and
Inspiring curiosity
So that's what I you know me i'm the community guy, of course
That's what i'm gonna do i'm gonna get them all to learn from each other because i'm too lazy to do it any other way
I was reading an article the other day
And you disinspired something
because the
When you talked up i'm like, oh, yeah, he's right, right?
Did you think i was gonna give a different answer? No, if you inspire creativity that
Creativity you need community and a safe place to inspire that creativity
Sorry, i'm dying for some reason
All right. This is the last in testing podcast because b is having a heart attack
We're back next week with the a testing vodka
a testing
the
Sorry, uh me my attempt to die
Definitely derailed the train of thought
Um
Let me see if I can bring it back
No, it's gone
But that's where innovation comes that's where I mean, oh I got it. Sorry. Thank you
I'm your inspiration. So article I was reading
And it was talking about
um
the
the debate against
Uh when the age AGI is going to exist i'm not going into that. Hey, we're not talking about it
This is a palate cleanser. Yeah, careful. Careful
But but
what they argue
is
That the jobs of the future are no longer going to be knowledge worker
But the jobs are going to be the future are going to be those
who have curiosity
creativity
ideation
and
Whether or not that's true. I don't effing care. Okay
But it is true. It's always been true. This is just accelerating that please go on
well, so exclusively versus
not
okay
but that leads me into the discussion of
um
You definitely want to
So again talking about cultural things community
Like we talked about individual stuff then we talked about structure and now we're talking about the team social
Okay
um
You want to create an environment?
in my humble opinion
that
vigorously
maybe even aggressively
Encourage
the growth mindset
I i'm gonna uh, yes, and you want to do that. Anyway, I would like to point out
That dan pink we refer to often on this podcast most famous for drive autonomy mastery and purpose
in
19 years ago
Wrote a book called a whole new mind
subtitle
Why right brainers aka creative folks will rule the world?
I read that book in 2006 and as a sort of a right brainer. I thought yep
He's right. I he's everything. He says makes sense. His book. I think is more relevant today
Than it was 19 years ago
I'm gonna go reread it
Because it's just what you just said people it's this creativity
Is going to rule the world in in the with ais and agi's and abc's and defs
The
Future belongs to a different kind of person with a different kind of mind artists inventors storytellers creative and holistic right brain thinkers
Whose abilities mark the fault line between who gets ahead and who doesn't we need storytellers?
We need creative people. We need inventors
We don't need a bunch of people who can crank out algorithms anymore
Buy your time's over
Sorry
There's always exceptions to the rule, but
Right. It's the same thing. I'm always right
Yeah
Yes, no, it's sure
Okay, good enough. I I will I will agree with everything you just said right there's these
Right the the whole meme on test is dead
Well, no, you right. Well cobalt still not dead
Right. It's like look
Are we talking targeting the dominant?
People are we talking the the three people still?
working in
1997 I am so sick of those people as a as a brief tangent as our podcast is famous for
like
There are certain people every time they find a bug in some
Software they talk like this is why we need software testers
And here's something every bit of software ever shipped has bugs in it. All right
Some are bad. Some are really bad. Most aren't
just
deliver quality to your customers
quickly
quality software at a sustainable pace
Um, I I just I just don't get it like this
It's so much anyway, yeah, I haven't gotten it in a while and
there are
Every now and again even in today's world it pops up again. Oh, can we um,
I have one more topic. I want to talk about sure, but are we are we are we good for patrick?
I i'm good for patrick patrick. Thank you for asking the question
Uh, if you want to hear your name called out on the ab testing podcast
Send us a freaking question. Give us something to talk about
Something I meant to bring up, uh last week. Well, but then we didn't record i'm gonna bring it up now
Okay, and it's it felt kind of related for a minute, but I can't remember why to do a reasonable segue
uh
We from time to time have guests
On the ab testing pod. That is true. I have been there. Yeah and
Honestly, the reason we don't have more
Is one we're shitty at interviews
Two
Brent we're not popular. Brent and I can barely
Figure out when we're gonna meet
Let alone bring in somebody else sure and so that's so coordination stuff. I don't have a producer to go coordinate that
And it could get easier. I will I don't know if you know this I get an email
Probably twice a week. I could probably get two emails a week from somebody
reaching out
Offering someone to be a guest on the podcast
I don't get quite that many but I get them myself and to me I gotta go
Yeah, i'm kind of done with
With being in a place where you where you just sell your product. Well here
I don't i'm i'm gonna guess that those people offering, you know
We would like to have so and so be on your excellent podcast. I'm gonna bet they've never listened to the podcast
Right it does and you know that just because they call it excellent
100 yes
And if one of you are listening if you want a chance at pitching a guest to our wonderful contest
podcast with
ones of listeners a total of three listeners
uh, if you want like
For the love of god i've had like a hundred of these in the past year
Could one of them be not a white dude? We have enough for those on the podcast already
Every single one
every single one
Well, we had
I mean when we find them ourselves we do better, right?
We've had like dagnos great. We've had
Yeah, I she should just do the podcast without us she's great. Um, but again, I don't
Every single one, I can't believe it. I'm just i'm blown away
And so I just ignore them and honestly it's again. I I what I do is I don't delete them
I forward those requests to our producer
Which is the recycling bin producer is named deleted items
Delete items folder. Yeah, um deleted folder middle name items. Yeah, that that's where I put those waiting to be processed
Yeah
All right
That is my one little rant for today. Uh patrick hoping answered your questions brent
Did you have anything else you wanted to cover before we wrap up episode?
216 216
Yeah, I do now what the hell was that I said 216 in french. Oh, that was french. Okay. Got it
All right. No
I've lost brandy's like, uh, that's klingon
No, it it had this swizzle. All right. This is anyway, abtistic bycast. He's brent, right? Yes. All right. I'm out. I'll see you later
Wait, not that one. Not that one. Not that one this one